# Mobile-Architect-Programming

# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The InventoryApp project allows a user to organize data on a table, being able to perform basic CRUD operations. This app could help users to easily manage a simple inventory and save their modifications for future operations. Additionally it can alert the user whenever an item has been reduced to zero.
# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
In order to make this app fully functional, several screens were created to support the user needs, starting by the Main activity screen from which the user can access other activities to Log In, to see the Inventory table, Quick Search, and more. Each of this screens required a different activity that could handle the required functionality. Each screen was also designed to be intuitive, with simple readable buttons that any user could identify.
# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I followed the MVC pattern. I first started designing the layout (View) of each screen to ensure that all the UI components and text were position correctly and to make sure what behavior would be occurring in each screen. Second, I designed the objects' class and the databases to be used (Model), and also created the two databases that would handle the user accounts and the inventory data. Finally, I developed the code (Controller) that would handle the behavior of each activity according to user input.
# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I constantly tested my work using the virtual device in Android Studio, I did so by developing local test cases and providing data out of the ordinary, by doing so I was able to uncover several issues that I then resolved by properly handling user input.
# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
I had a little bit of difficulty handling the recycler view for the first time, as the provided resources were not so clear for me to fully understand how it worked, fortunately I did my own research and found detailed tutorials setting up a recycler view and came to understand the importance of properly certain the adapter to obtain the desired functionality.
# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I believe I was able to properly set up my databases, and most importantly, to filter the inventory database based on user's current log in state (a logged user would see their own private table, different from another user signed in on the application).
